VeloxChem for LUMI added (#2608)
CSCfi/csc-user-guide: docs/apps/veloxchem.md

---
tags:
  - Free
---

# VeloxChem

VeloxChem is a Python-based open source quantum chemistry software for
contemporary and future hardware architectures. It features interactive program
access through Jupyter notebooks as well as massively parallel calculations in
high-performance computing (HPC) environments. 

## Available

 - LUMI

   | Version | Available modules | Notes |
   |:-------:|:------------------|:-----:|
   | 1.0rc4 | veloxchem/cpu   | CPU version |
   | 1.0 | veloxchem/gpu   | GPU version |

## License

 - VeloxChem is a free software available under the 3-Clause BSD License.

## Usage

On LUMI, you need to first activate CSC's local software stack before you can
see and load the module. For example:

```bash

> module use /appl/local/csc/modulefiles

Author: Didn't even know about Local-CSC. Have only seen the other version, e.g. https://docs.csc.fi/apps/lammps/#lumi-c-hybrid-mpiopenmp

    ```

=== "LUMI GPU script"

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    #SBATCH --account=<project>
    #SBATCH --partition=standard-g
    #SBATCH --job-name=vlx.gpu_test
    #SBATCH --time 02:00:00

    #SBATCH --nodes=2
    #SBATCH --exclusive
    #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=1
    #SBATCH --hint=nomultithread
    #SBATCH --gpus-per-node=8

    # Load VeloxChem GPU environment
    module use /appl/local/csc/modulefiles
    module load veloxchem/gpu

    # Activate Python virtual environment
    source $VLXHOME/vlxenv/bin/activate

    # use one OpenMP thread per GPU device
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=8
    export OMP_PLACES=cores
    export SRUN_CPUS_PER_TASK=8

    # Run VeloxChem
    job=g-quad-neutral
    srun python3 -m veloxchem ${job}.inp ${job}.out
    ```

## More information

 - VeloxChem website: [veloxchem.org](https://veloxchem.org/)
 - VeloxChem GitLab repository: [gitlab.com/veloxchem/veloxchem](https://gitlab.com/veloxchem/veloxchem)
 - [VeloxChem: A Python-driven density-functional theory program for spectroscopy simulations in high-performance computing environments](https://wires.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wcms.1457 ) (introductory paper about VeloxChem) 

>  - [VeloxChem — Quantum Molecular Modelling in HPC Environments](https://wires.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wcms.1457p)(article about the reasons and need for developing VeloxChem, the goals and structure of the software and its efficiency)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [VeloxChem — Quantum Molecular Modelling in HPC Environments](https://www.pdc.kth.se/about/publications/pdc-newsletter-no-2-2019/veloxchem-1.945304) (article about the reasons and need for developing VeloxChem, the goals and structure of the software and its efficiency)
```

Is this a correct link?
